In this video we're talking about how to find the least common multiple of a set of numbers and the
least common multiple is just the number that both of the numbers we've been given will divide into
evenly.
So in other words if we just talk about multiples in general here we've been given two numbers 10 and
15.
Let's talk about the multiples of 10.
Well when we talk about the multiples of a number what we mean is the multiples of 10 will be 10 times
1.
So 10 10 times to 20 10 times three 30 10 times four is 40.
So in other words 10 20 30 and 40 are all multiples of 10 and I could keep going on to infinity 50 60
70 80 90 100 110 120.
Those are all multiples of 10 because 10 divides evenly into all of those numbers.
I could also look at the multiples of 15 I could say 15 times one gives me 15 15 times two gives me
30 15 times three gives me 45 15 times four gives me 60 and I could keep going same thing.
So 15 30 45 and 60 are all multiples of 15.
So then when I say I want to find the least common multiple of two numbers for example I want to find
the least common multiple of 10 and 15 I'm looking for the smallest number that matches between these
two sets.
And what I can see is that that's going to be 30 30 is the smallest number that 10 and 15 divide into
evenly because 30 is a multiple of both 10 and 15 and there's no number that's smaller than 30 the 10
and 15 both go into evenly 10 goes into 10 and 20 evenly but 15 doesn't 15 goes into 15 evenly but 10
doesn't go into 15 evenly.
So 30 is the least common multiple.
If I kept going here with 10 I could say ten times five is 50 and ten times six is 60.
And then I could say that 60 is also a multiple of 10 and 15 because it's in both sets.
But it's not the least common multiple because 30 is smaller than 60.
So 30 is going to be my least common multiple of 10 and 15.
Now what happens when you have a set of numbers that includes more than just two numbers and maybe it's
going to be really difficult to write out all of the multiples of each number until you find one that
matches across all three sets.
Here we need to find the least common multiple of 24 10 and 15.
So how do we do that.
Well the easiest way to do it is to factor all three numbers into their prime factors.
In other words we're going to do some prime factorization here.
Remember with prime factorization if we have an even number we know we can divide 2 into that number
so we'll get 2 and 12 because two times 12 is 24.
Remember also that a prime number is a number that's divisible only by 1 and itself.
So two is a prime number because the only factors of 2 are 1 and 2.
In other words 1 and the number itself 12 is not a prime number because I can divide it by 1 and 12
1 in itself.
But I can also divide it by 3 and 4 and 6.
So I want to divide this again by two to get 2 and 6 and 2 is a prime number but 6 isn't so I need to
divide 6 by 2 again and I get two and three.
So two to two and three.
Those are all prime numbers here.
So I know that I'm done with my prime factorization.
And now I just need to go ahead and write these out two times two times two times three.
And this is the product of primes of 24.
I need to do the same thing for 10 and 15.
So I can divide 10 into two and five two and five are both prime numbers.
So I can't go any further with my prime factorization and my product primes then is two times five for
15.
Divide that into three and five because three times five is 15.
Three and five are both prime numbers.
So I know I'm down with my prime factorization.
I'm a product of primes is three and five.
Now the only number for which I have a repeating factors and my product of primes is this 24 here I
have three factors of two.
So I want to rewrite this as two cubed times three.
So here I have three factors of two and one factor of three here I have one factor of two and one factor
of five.
And here I have one factor of three and one factor of five.
So when I want to find the least common multiple Now that I have my prime factors what I need to do
is take the largest number of each factor.
So what I see first of all is that I have factors of two and I have factors of two.
I have factors of three and factors of three.
And I have factors of five and factors of five.
So I have to look at two.
I have to look at three and I have to look at five.
So first looking at two what's the largest number of factors that I have for two on this number I have
three factors of two in this number.
I have one factor of two.
I have to take the larger number of factors of two.
So I have to take three factors of two.
So I'll say two cubed.
Now I look at my factors of three.
I have one factor of three and I have one factor of three.
Those are equal so I just have to take one factor of three and then I have to look my factors of five
I have one factor of five and one factor of five.
So I have to take one factor of five and now I can just multiply all of these together to get my least
common multiple.
So I'm going to say two cubed or two times two times two that's going to give me eight.
Three times five is going to give me 15.
So I'm going to say eight times 15 eight times 15 is going to get me one hundred twenty.
So 120 is going to be the least common multiple of 24 10 and 15 and I can prove to myself that 120 is
a multiple of 24 10 and 15 by dividing 120 by all three of these numbers.
So if I divide 120 by 24 I get five if I divide 120 by 10.
I get 12 if I divide 120 by 15.
I get eight.
So I know that 24 10 and 15 all go evenly into 120.
That helps me double check at least that I do have a multiple of three numbers I started with but this
is the method you want to use to find the least common multiple set of numbers like this one.